---
layout: post
author: Paul
---

## Game Skeleton

First step is to structure the document and outline the text and actions available at each stage of the game. Within this framework we can add the game logic to flesh out the game experience.

Firstly, as with any web app, we will need persistent <header> which will act as the branding for the game. Depending on the number of teams involved there may be some scrolling required and this is even more likely on smaller screen devices so this does not need to be fixed in place as it will take up valuable screen estate whilst serving no functional purpose.

```
<header>
<div>Scottish Cup Game</div>
<div>Hampden (graphic?)</div>
</header>
```

The <main> area will be where the action (well as much action as you would expect in a dice-based game) will take place. Each stage of the game can be included here and displayed as required as the game progresses. My initial thoughts on this would require...

1. **Welcome** - initial screen explaining the game
2. **Team selection** - screen to list all teams in the competition and allow user to select their team
3. **Round** - main game screen to make the draw for each round and play all games
4. **Final** - as the final deserves a little razamataz (and slightly different wording) this could have a screen of its own
5. **Loser** - once your team has been knocked out a comiseration screen with the option to play again (and potentially to watch the tournament to its conclusion)
6. **Winner** - a celebratory screen for winning the Scottish Cup

Each of these screens need to be targetted by the game logic and all but the initial screen will need to be hidden from view until the game requires.

```
<main>
<div class="screen winner" style="display: none;">
<h2>Congratulations!</h2>
</div>
</main>
```

The static text for these screens can also be sketched out at this stage but there needs to be placeholder elemnts in place which we can update as the game progresses e.g. Selected team, round name, and dynamically generated game content.

1. **myTeam** - can be updated throughout the game after team selection
2. **roundName** - keeps tab
s on the stage of the competition
3. **teamCount** - number of teams remaining in the competition
4. **opposition** - team to be played in the current round
5. **gameContent** - blank canvas for the game logic output e.g. draw for the round

```
<h2>Play <span class="roundName"></span></h2>
<p><span class="myTeam"></span> are one of <span class="teamCount"></span> teams in the hat for this <span class="roundName"></span> draw.</p>
<div class="gameContent"></div>
```

Finally to round out this skeleton of the game we need to add an action bar which will show the options available at each stage of the game. This is important so users can see what actions need to be taken so can be set up as a fixed footer at the bottom of the screen so it is always visible regardless of screen size.

```
<footer>
<p><button class="startBtn" style="">Get started...</button></p>
</footer>
```
Here is the [skeleton framework of the game](https://phowie74.github.io/dev/stage1.html)

Next step will be to add basic navigation functionality to progress through the game.


