---
layout: post
author: Paul
categories: [Hampden]
---

## Hampden Genesis

As a youngster I had picked up a vintage board game at a jumble sale called "Wembley". This simple dice based game allowed players to take their chosen teams on a journey to the FA Cup Final. I was reminded of this game I used to play with my brother many years ago when I stumbled across a vintage football games YouTube channel and it struck me that it was an ideal concept for a simple text based web application. With my preference being for Scottish football I thought a shift to Hampden and the chance to take may heroes to Scottish Cup glory was much more appealing.

Being on lockdown allows the time and space to think about side projects as a way to learn new skills and exercise some creativity which is not always possible in commercial work. As a web designer / front end developer the race to keep up with the latest technologies is constant so I was looking for an opportunity to build a Progressive Web Application with offline functionality using CSS Grid and Flexbox. I was also interested in extending my jQuery skills which are usually limited to basic web ui functionality. Whilst it is possibly not the best foundation for a project such as this they are tools I am familiar with but if I learn their shortcomings during the process it may well evolve to include other technologies.

It was also an opportunity to delve deeper into Github and look at using Jekyll and Github Pages to catalogue my programming efforts as I stumble my way through this development. By breaking the project down into logical segments I can monitor my progress and make note of my successes and failures as part of the learning experience. The development process can be broken down into the html structure and game styling, the game logic and playing experience and the bundling of assets to make a successful Web App playable offline.

As a rough outline of the planned development I broke the process down into chunks:

1. Basic skeleton and game screens
2. Initial scripting to progress through the game screens
3. Setting up teams and team selection
4. Drawing ties for each round
5. Generating simple results for matches
6. Removing eliminated teams from the game and progressing
7. Allowing for extra time, penalties and sudden death
8. Adding complexity to matches with contextual dice
9. Introducing interactive match play for selected team


All subject to change of course but certainly a good starting point.
