---
layout: post
title:  "Competition Draw"
categories: [Hampden, jquery, html]
---

# Competition Draw

Now team selection has been finalised I can look at making the draw for a round of the competition. As the draw will need to made for each round of the tournament we can build on our `makeDraw()` function setup to test the game flow.

During the draw stage I can layout the table in place ready for the result to be added to the table without having to completely re-write the game screen after each match. In addition to the home team and away team I will need a placeholder for the homeScore, awayScore and an additional field for additional info at full time (we will come back to that later!). In HTML terms this is perfect for a table with each row needing an identifier which I can target in the script and the cells for the homeScore, awayScore and additional info also need to be targetable...

```
<tr class="matchX">
<td class="text-right home" id="X">Home Team</td>
<td class="text-center homeScore teamX"></td>
<td class="text-center">vs.</td>
<td class="text-center awayScore teamX"></td>
<td class="away" id="X">Away Team</td>
<td class="ft"></td>
</tr>
```

Using `.matchX` with the match number for that round, `.matchX .homeScore` and `.matchX .awayScore` we can add the scores after the match has finished and `.matchX .ft` will allow us to add extra info.

With the table structure sorted I can now set up the function to make the draw. Firstly I need to know how many matches are in the round - as I know how many teams are in total I know dividing that by two will tell me. We can also start building the table code to be added to the gameContent area once the draw has been finalised...
```
var matches;

matches = totalTeams / 2;

var table = '<table>';

// draw data added here

table += '</table>';
$('.gameContent').append(table);

```

I then need to set up a temporary array to hold the ids of each of the teams involved so I can shuffle it and make a random draw without affecting the main teams array...
```
var list = [];
for (var i = 0; i < totalTeams; i++) { list.push(i); }
list.sort(function() { return 0.5 - Math.random() }); // shuffle array
```

It is then possible to loop through each team from our randomised array and add their details to the fixtures table. The list number corresponds to the team number so team data can be grabbed...
```
var table;
var matchNo = 1;

for(var i=0; i<list.length; i++){ 
  // output table data for each team e.g. teams[list[i]].name

}
```
Because each match actually involves two teams, for each team we need to output start the table row for the home team and then finish the row with the away team. The easiest way to do that is to work out if the team number is odd or even...
```
if(i % 2 == 0){
  // even number output home team
} else {
  // odd numbers output away team
}
```
After the home team data has been added and the matchNo identifier added to the row, matchNo can be incremented using `matchNo++;` ready for the next row.

You can [make a draw for each round](https://phowie74.github.io/dev/stage7.html) and loop through the game. This will randomly half the teams left in the competition so it will look like you win the game even though you may not even be in the draw - I will come back and fix that after I have resolved the playing matches element!

