---
layout: post
title:  "Refactoring the match engine"
categories: [Hampden, jquery]
---

# Refactoring the match engine

As the match engine has become more complicated to allow for extra time and penalties the function has become a little unwieldy. When the time comes to introduce a manual dice rolling element for you chosen team it will be even more complex to work through a match in stages. Instead it makes sense to break the portions of the match into sections. A single playMatch() function will start the match, write the results into the table and add the losers to the array ready to be removed from the game. The playMatch function only needs to be passed the match number, home team and away team...

```
function playMatch(match,homeTeam,awayTeam) {
  
}
```

As I am rationalising the match engine it is also the ideal opportunity to think about how the game will handle multiple dice. I found a forum post that outlined [the original dice values used](https://boardgamegeek.com/thread/89902/ive-lost-dice) in the Wembley board game.

> RED (1st Div home) 4 4 3 2 1 0
> GREEN (2nd Div home) 4 3 2 2 1 0
> BLUE (3rd Div home) 5 4 2 1 0 0
> ORANGE (1st Div away) 4 3 3 2 1 0
> YELLOW (2nd Div away) 4 3 2 1 1 0
> WHITE (3rd Div away) 5 4 1 1 0 0 

So i can set the dice arrays up in the same way using the division from the teams array with an h for home or a for away...
```
var hPr = [4,4,3,2,1,0];
var hCh = [4,3,2,2,1,0];
var hD1 = [5,4,2,1,0,0];

var aPr = [4,3,3,2,1,0];
var aCh = [4,3,2,1,1,0];
var aD1 = [5,4,1,1,0,0];
```


The playMatch function can calculate which dice are required...
```
homeDie = 'h' + teams[homeTeam].division;
awayDie = 'a' + teams[awayTeam].division;
```

I can then call the play90 function which will roll the dice for 90 minutes. If the score after 90 minutes is a draw it can then call extra time with the playET function. This would be followed by playPens and playSD but these would only ever be required when the tie is being drawn. The play90 would ...
```
function play90(match,homeTeam,homeDie,awayTeam,awayDie) {
  
}
``` 
Testing this it turns out you can't pass an array into the function as a dynamic variable so instead of a random number from the dice I was getting a random letter from 'hPr' or 'aCh'. [A little research](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/17033550/jquery-pass-array-as-argument-in-function) shows I need to keep the dice in an object and I can then pass the object with a variable selection...
```
var dice = {
	hPr: [4,4,3,2,1,0],
	hCh: [4,3,2,2,1,0],
	hD1: [5,4,2,1,0,0],
	aPr: [4,3,3,2,1,0],
	aCh: [4,3,2,1,1,0],
	aD1: [5,4,1,1,0,0]
}

```
In the playMatch function I can set the dice and pass it to the play90 function...
```
homeDie = 'h' + teams[homeTeam].division;
homeDie = dice[homeDie];
awayDie = 'a' + teams[awayTeam].division;
awayDie = dice[awayDie];

play90(homeTeam,homeDie,awayTeam,awayDie);
```

This revised match engine has been included in [the dev build](https://phowie74.github.io/dev/stage11.html) so you can see it in action.

<!--
PEN - Goal-Goal-Goal-Goal-Saved-Missed
-->